Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed fellow practitioners.
Today we will share with
each other a sutra whose content is about how to
worship and pray in order to bring
us peace and fulfill
our wishes.
Our worship includes
this worship, this veneration, this reverence, this veneration,
and all of this worship
originates from a
loving heart, a heart filled with aspiration.
Now, I invite all esteemed fellow practitioners to join hands and recite the
Buddha's name as we begin our
regular Dharma sharing session of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, practicing the six senses.
Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni. Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni. Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni. Homage to the
Buddha
Shakyamuni. Respectfully, esteemed fellow
practitioners, worship
is a form of worship where we set up an
altar to worship.
This worship includes offerings, prayers, and
vows. That is what we call worship.  In the context of
offerings, the object of worship
is someone who is
no longer in this world, who has passed away. In the context of
veneration, we also set up an
altar to worship. However,
this veneration includes an additional
element: service. The object of
worship may no longer be in this world,
but may have left us
teachings, guidance,
or doctrines to follow,
so
we call it
veneration. Similarly, we might worship those we cherish and admire who are still alive, whom we respectfully offer gifts, donations, or offerings to. For example, we worship the
Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha), encompassing both the
deceased and the living. As for reverence and worship, it means
we, with a respectful heart,
venerate them, and we often
create a sense of reverence and devotion.  We venerate images and statues for
our viewing pleasure, we clasp our hands in reverence, that's what
we usually call "worship." But
worship can be about the object of
worship, whether it's still alive or has passed away,
having left
this physical body. So,
worshiping and praying is one of
these four forms of worship, but it adds
another element: a desire for something. We worship to pray for
blessings and protection.
Today, we're discussing
worship for the sake of prayer. So, the object
of our worship involves a
desire for blessings and
protection. So, worship
also involves a desire for something, and
sometimes even the act of venerating also involves a desire for something,
right? For example, we, as
Vietnamese people, deeply
respect and admire Uncle Ho, don't we? We also admire
Uncle Ho's image, and
sometimes we clasp our hands in
reverence and respect him, right?  But
as Vietnamese citizens, if
we happen to hear that the border is not
peaceful or something like that, we will
clasp our hands and pray, asking Uncle Ho to protect the
country and prevent peace. Is
n't that right? So, that part is just a
part. For example, in worship, there's
a part where people don't
expect anything, for example, when worshipping an
idol, they don't expect anything.
But in worship, there are still many things to expect.
For example, we worship Buddha,
a religious leader, right? Or when we worship
someone, we also have expectations.
For example, we can
worship Uncle Ho, right? We still have expectations.
So, what we're sharing today is
about worship, offerings, and prayers.
When we worship, we offer, and we
pray, we have the
object we're aiming for, the offerings, the offerings,
and our hearts
towards this prayer.
To understand how this worship and prayer can lead to
peace and
good results, we come to...  The
Buddha taught in this sutra that it is
beneficial to worship those who are worthy. The ancient Sutra of the Mind and Contemplation
asks: "In ancient times, the
Buddha taught in the country of Shravasti. At
that time, in the city of Rajagriha, there was a
foolish, violent, and unfilial man who despised his
parents, disrespected good people, and did not
respect his elders. He was unsuccessful in business and
did not achieve his goals, so he worshipped fire to pray for blessings. The
rule of worshipping fire was that every
day, at sunset, he had to light a large bonfire and kneel before it
until midnight.
You see, the
human
desire for happiness is always present. When they desire happiness,
they will think of
ways to pray for
happiness, and then someone will
pray in this way.
In the cycle of cause and effect, at some
point, they will receive the blessing.
Or, for example, wealthy people who think of such things and
go to pray, naturally it
becomes a school of thought. Wealthy
people do what they
think of, or influential people do it."
So, when people come to Hung and
pray for something, gradually the majority
will follow because, according to our Buddhist teachings, it
's the law of cause and effect. If they have something,
they become wealthy because they know how to accumulate
merit from many lifetimes. But
now, with the eyes of ordinary people, we
just think that working and then
going to pray and make offerings is about achieving results, so we
think that's the way to go. That's why
this man is worshipping a pile of offerings
and he thinks he will become rich. That's according to
a custom in India, where there are
many devout people. Please
read on. This man worshipped like that for 3 years
without receiving any blessings, so he switched to
worshipping the sun and moon. The rule for worshipping the
sun and moon is that during the day when the sun
rises and at night when the moon rises, you
face towards them and worship until sunset.
Dear fellow practitioners, if
any of you have been to India, you will
see that this custom of worshipping the sun is
still very common. Early in the morning,
they go down to Hang, bathe, then face towards the
sun and take a...
They would lift the water cup on their heads or
clasp their hands towards the sun and
pray there a lot.
This religion is still very popular
in India, dating back to the time of
Buddha. From the stories of Buddha's time
to now, it's been over 2000 to 600 years. (The
text then continues with a different topic: "
This person practiced this for 3 years but still
received no blessings, so they switched to worshipping
Heaven. They burned incense and offered flowers,
wine, meat, buffalo, cows, pigs, and goats
until they were poor and still received no
blessings. So
they switched to worshipping
Heaven, meaning they have a religion called
worshipping Heaven. Of course,
they worship the King of Heaven and the Lord of
Heaven because they think that the King of
Heaven and the Lord of Heaven bestow blessings upon humanity.
This person has also worshipped this religion since the time of Buddha.
Because of this, the person became frail and sickly,
unable to even go out for a day.")  He heard that in
the country of Savatthi there was a Buddha, a
revered deity. Dear fellow practitioners, in
India, there are many
religions, and some religions
only consider the Buddha as a god or a
deity.
Now, in India, Hinduism ranks the Buddha as
one of the ten gods of
their religion.
Therefore, they maintain the Bodhi Gaya temple;
Hindus mainly manage it and
place the Buddha among
their ten gods.
Our Buddha attained enlightenment under the
Bodhi tree, but now
Hinduism calls the Buddha their leader, their religious
leader, and sends him
down to be a deity of their country and
their religion. That's
strange.
One day, he heard that in the country of Savatthi there
was a Buddha, a revered deity, so he went
there to serve him, hoping for blessings. He
diligently traveled to
Savatthi to find the Buddha. He arrived at the temple gate and, upon
seeing the Buddha's countenance...  The Buddha's majesty shone
brightly like the moon, standing out
among countless stars. The man, filled with joy,
knelt down and bowed to the Buddha, clasping his
hands and saying, "O Buddha, I was
born and raised in ignorance, knowing
nothing of the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha. I only worshipped fire, the
sun, the moon, and the celestial beings. For
countless years I suffered and toiled without receiving
any merit, and my body became weak, my strength
diminished, and I suffered from many illnesses. I didn't know when I would
die.
Now I know that you, the Buddha, are the
master who saves all beings, so I have come from afar to take refuge and
ask you to bestow your blessings upon me."
We see that the
desire for salvation is present in all beings; everyone always goes to a
place
to pray and seek
happiness. The Buddha said to him, "You have worshipped
only
evil spirits and demons all this time." The Buddha said, "You worshipped the sun god, the
moon god, the goddess of death, and even the
sky god." The Buddha continued, "
You worshipped only evil spirits and demons."
Why do I say you worshipped evil spirits and demons? Because those
are the deities that people also worship.  Yes,
but people don't accept that kind of worship.
When you worship like that, you attract
evil spirits and demons. They're just impersonating you. And
besides,
whether they're gods or deities, if
you worship them incorrectly, you wo
n't receive any blessings. Secondly, they can't give
you
any method or guidance to help you achieve happiness or fulfill your
desires. They
don't know how to make offerings and prayers. With so
many of them, the sins will be as vast as mountains, and the sins will be as
immense as rivers and seas. The Buddha
taught that the more offerings you make to those places, the
more sins you'll accumulate.
Killing animals to seek blessings is
far from achieving them. It's always the case
that people kill
animals to seek blessings. If you were to sacrifice
all the cows and goats in the world for a hundred lifetimes, you
would incur sins as great as
Mount Sumeru, and your blessings would be as small as a
mustard seed. Now, even with such small blessings, you still bring them out.  How can one bear such a
heavy sin as Mount Sumeru?
Perhaps the merit is only as small as a
mustard seed. It's
probably because of killing animals for sacrifices and then giving
the meat away to people to eat; that's all it takes to gain
a little merit. But the sin is
as big as Mount Sumeru.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, the
Buddha taught us this way of offering:
if you can change your character, show respect to virtuous and wise people, be dignified and polite,
serve elders, abandon evil and do good,
cultivate body and mind, and cultivate compassion, then the four
blessings will increase every day, and you will never
encounter misfortune.
The Buddha taught that the person making the offering must
change their character, abandon evil and do good. The
person making the offering, the one praying for
something, must abandon evil and do good, cultivate
body and mind, cultivate compassion, be dignified and polite.
That means changing a
lot in one's character; one must become virtuous and good before one can
pray and offer. And what about
dignified and polite behavior and service towards whom? To
elders?
Elders have two types of people
called...  The first elder is the elder
in terms of age. That means you must know how to respect the
elderly. Respecting the elderly means knowing how to serve them
in the house, showing filial
piety to your parents, your
grandparents. Then there's another level of elder,
called the one with great wisdom, the
Elder of
Wisdom. In Buddhism, knowledge alone isn't
enough to be called wisdom. A wise person
is someone who
knows
how to liberate themselves from suffering and the cycle of
rebirth. They must know
how to lead themselves and all beings
to happiness. Only then can they be called a wise
person. This wisdom is
n't based on age; even young people
must be respected,
learned from, and served.
Such a person is
the one whose path to enlightenment is easiest to follow.
Furthermore, one must also show
reverence to the Virtuous One. A virtuous person is
someone who is kind and virtuous. A
virtuous person is someone who cares for the majority,
someone who lives for the benefit of the majority. And then there's the
most virtuous person we
can
easily find.  When we meet people and find them safe,
and see virtuous individuals everywhere,
without fear or confusion, those are the monks. Only
those who truly practice and cultivate virtue
can be truly virtuous and
become wise elders.
So,
when we do that, we gain
four kinds of merit. This is how we achieve four kinds of blessings: first,
our hearts are virtuous; second, we are directed towards
virtuous beings to
serve them; third,
we are at
peace and free from illness; and fourth, we are long-lived and
not prone to death. It's very
good if you diligently practice these virtues
without any laxity. You can attain enlightenment and
even liberation. That's
very good. Then the
Buddha recited a verse to
pray for
blessings and to examine the karmic consequences later. He respectfully bowed to the
four virtuous ones, knowing how to be polite, humble, and
always respectful to the elders. The
four blessings naturally increase: beauty, strength, longevity, and
peace.
At this point, we see that
our offerings and prayers are directed towards the
Buddhas.  Isn't it true that if the object of our prayers is the
Buddhas, then the Buddhas already possess the
Dharma, the teachings, and so on? That's what
we call worshipping the Buddha. Then,
worshipping the Buddha leads to worshipping the Dharma, and worshipping the
Dharma leads to worshipping the Sangha. So, we worship the Buddha, the Dharma, and the
Sangha. Respecting the Buddha, respecting the Dharma, respecting the Sangha, and offering sacrifices to the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha will generate merit for ourselves. With a virtuous mind, we will become virtuous people, right? Some people have a mind
for studying the Dharma, but their minds aren't yet virtuous. They might study for a personal purpose, they might study
but not practice, they might study to understand the
words and meanings, but from that they might
do unwholesome things, right? Therefore,
we must cultivate a virtuous mind, a mind of
aspiration, to achieve
happiness. By studying Buddhist teachings,
our aspirations will be fulfilled. Dear
fellow practitioners, for our
worship and
prayers to be successful,
the Buddha has clearly taught in this sutra that the
object of our prayers
must be virtuous people.  A virtuous person
must possess wisdom and a kind heart; the
offerings must be appropriate and suitable for
that service, which is called worship.
In worship, there are offerings, and then
we will receive blessings. The
person, after hearing the verses,
joyfully understood and bowed to the
Buddha, then said, "Because of my defilements and
ignorance, I have committed sins for the past nine
years. Fortunately, thanks to the Buddha's compassionate guidance, I
have gained understanding. I beg the Buddha to allow me to
become a monk." The Buddha said, "
Excellent! Come here, monk!" The person, with their
hair and beard styled, became a monk. After
diligently contemplating their breath, they attained
Arhatship. Thus, they attained
Arhatship. Initially, the Buddha taught
them to change their way of worship so that they would
be happy. Happiness is the
four blessings: first,
beauty; second, health; third,
freedom from illness; and fourth, longevity and freedom
from death. This way of worship
will fulfill their wishes and
bring them peace and tranquility.  This is called
peace and tranquility, meaning that
everything will be fine. So, through
this sharing, the mind of Han Quan
and our esteemed fellow practitioners will have more
guidance to help
us increase our faith in
karma, faith in the Buddha's teachings,
and the fulfillment of our worship, offerings, and prayers.
Because
we Buddhists are still living at home, we
cannot help
but have aspirations. Even those who become monks or nuns still aspire to
sainthood. At home, we hope for less suffering,
right? Does family peace and tranquility reduce suffering? Does
good health reduce suffering? Does
work and business prosper?
Does being virtuous, free from imprisonment and deception
reduce suffering? Therefore, no
one is without aspirations, and aspirations
must stem from the heart—the heart of worship, the heart of reverence, the
heart of respect. Right? If
we have aspirations, they must originate from that heart. If we
don't know about the Buddha's teachings, when we go to
a place to worship, we
still have great faith in the deity there,
right? We also have great respect.
We also greatly revere them and trust them,
believing that they will bestow blessings upon
us.
That's why we bring offerings, money, and other items to them. Is
n't that serving them? Giving them money and objects in the hope that they will bestow blessings upon us? But if we
place the offerings in the wrong place,
and the objects we worship cause suffering to living beings, taking
their lives,
and our hearts are greedy and unwholesome,
then
our worship will not bring us any benefit,
nor will it fulfill our wishes. Therefore, we worship
to seek happiness, just like in
our homes. Even if we don't follow any religion,
we must still worship our
deceased grandparents and parents. We call them
our great-grandparents, our
deceased elders, and they also bring blessings. But
the objects we worship must not kill or
harm living beings. And our hearts must be
grateful, not unfilial,
right? Not greedy.
If we bring offerings to our
parents, then...  When parents are gone and only
siblings remain, if we are unkind to them, cruel
to them,
merciless, unprotected, and
neglectful of their grandchildren, then even breathing will not bring blessings,
right? Our desires will
not be fulfilled, even though we worship our
elders, those who have passed away, the
elderly in our lineage. Even if we worship the
remaining elders, no matter how great, if we do not show respect and filial piety to
our parents and grandparents, the
elders,
then we
cannot receive blessings.
So here, the mind and the contemplation
share this with the matter mentioned in this sutra:
this person worships heaven and earth but
receives no blessings, not even a little bit.
The Buddha still says that worshiping demons and evil spirits is like worshipping demons and
evil spirits. So, at home, we worship the gods and spirits.
In our enlightened state, worship is about offering to them,
not about praying to them.
We offer to the Three
Jewels, dedicating our merit to them.  We bless
them so that their merit increases, and then we form a
Dharma-companion relationship with them. In that relationship,
they protect and support us; that's being
friends, being Dharma women. A Dharma woman is a friend,
not someone we ask for blessings from. For
example, we cultivate
mindfulness and form friendships with our fellow practitioners. Then
we help each other. That's right, is
n't it? We help
each other in everything; whoever is able helps to the best of their
ability. For example, in our Dharma community, if there
are people who are poorer or
sicker, those who are
more financially stable will share to help, right? It's the same
with the celestial beings;
they help us in whatever way they can. And we help
them in whatever way we can.
For example, we do merit in the Three Jewels,
we dedicate it, we share our merit
with them, right? That's helping each other. The worship of celestial beings and gods here is just a place for us to direct our minds and form Dharma-companion relationships, not a place for
us to pray for blessings.  It's like, "I don't
know, I don't know, they ...
They think that those
celestial beings and gods can
bless them, help them do even
evil things, right? They do all
those things to help them. So they
go to worship this saint and that god.
Sometimes they bring opium with
them, hoping to get what they want, right?
So, in the
matter of worship, we all
worship, and we
must learn. If we don't learn, if we don't
know, if we don't understand, we will
worship incorrectly. And anything wrong is evil,
it's not right, and
that has bad karma for us. What is bad karma? Not only will our prayers not be answered, but we will
also create sin and misfortune,
like the man in this picture, right?
So everyone must worship, from
young to old, from the elderly
to the children. So we must learn
everything, and there's nothing better
than learning Buddhism, right? And all the
Buddhists in our Golden Chrysanthemum Club have
experienced
this worship, and...
This kind of worship, done correctly according to the Dharma,
brings happiness and brings about a great
transformation of our karma.
However, even if we practice,
we cannot abandon
learning because the
seeds of wrong views within us are
still numerous. Only the Buddha's teachings can cleanse
us. Each time, little by little, we absorb the
same content,
but the Buddha taught us
many sutras because he knew
our capacities. Morning enlightenment, afternoon delusion; morning enlightenment, afternoon delusion; morning good, afternoon evil; afternoon good,
afternoon evil. Because we are
still influenced by karmic forces, the
Buddha taught us to diligently listen to the Dharma and study the Dharma. Only through
studying the Dharma can
we cleanse the wrong views
in our hearts, right?
Now, we just need to
check a little, and we can
know. For example, we are just beginning to
learn the Dharma. We are practicing and seeing
a little transformation of
our karma, but our desires are too great, and we haven't
achieved them yet because of
our accumulated merit.  It was created when it was small, but
my aspirations were too great. I practiced but hadn't achieved anything yet.
So I listened to the Dharma, and I was amazed, it was very good, I was able to
change a little bit, it was
very good. But then
I heard someone on the other side say, "Oh my god, just
come here to worship, just do a simple ceremony and you'll get it right away." So, if you
go, your greedy mind will
leave immediately. That's why you have to listen to the Dharma regularly and practice diligently so that we can have a firm belief in the right thing, not be dragged into the truth by evil, not be dragged into falsehood, right? No, in this sutra, this man is the same. He also had to follow and learn
a lot. From the beginning, he was a
person, he was persistent in the
Dharma. But because he lost his
wealth, he spent 3 years
worshipping gods, then another 3 years
worshipping the moon and sun gods,
right? Then after another 3 years,
he worshipped the sky god, making it
9 years. He was very persistent, 9 years, of
course...  For nine years,
he must have had a group of friends;
how could he be alone, right? That's
why he kept moving from one group to another.
Those who came to us to practice Buddhism
could be those who were already established, but there
were also those who had just arrived or who
didn't listen to the Dharma, with their hearts full of prayers and
supplications. It was so
overwhelming that they became confused. They'd go
to one place, ask for something, and not get it, then go to another,
ask for something, and not get it, then go to yet another.
So there are many cases of people
practicing Buddhism, some joining the Dharma center, some joining the group of people who sow seeds of merit, some joining the group of people who
listen in the
Chrysanthemum Club. They might practice once,
49 days, or twice, 49 days, and not
see any change. Then they run to another place, to
another school of thought to practice.
Later, it becomes too difficult, and there's no
way out, so they run
back again. This is because
we don't understand
this way of worshiping. So they go to another place, and
people often say they're just offering a sacrifice.  It's okay,
but it's not like you're practicing like me. You
need time to cultivate your mind, correct your character, and attain enlightenment. You must observe the precepts, take refuge, and uphold the precepts. You must
do good deeds, then
recite scriptures to understand, listen to scriptures to understand the
Dharma, and only then will you accumulate merit.
That merit is the merit that changes karma. Then you
direct your mind and make offerings to those worthy of worship. That means
it must be complete, you must change your character,
change karma.
In that change of karma,
before you worshipped evil, now you must
worship what you worship, what you worship. Before, you
worshipped the wrong religious leaders, now
you must worship the wise ones. You still have to
worship, you still have to make offerings, you have to make offerings and serve them.
For example, in places of worship that are not
right, they make you kill
many living beings; that's their practice.
But here, you have to correct your
morality; that's your practice. No, here
you have to respectfully serve the elders,
but there are many places of worship where
people make offerings, the leaders
of those places also speak terribly, right?
Very unethical. Sometimes those people are the
leaders.  In that society, people
live in a kind of chaotic and disorderly manner,
right? They don't maintain any moral conduct at
all. Their speech is very harsh and abusive,
right? They don't care
about their words at all. That means they don't cultivate
their moral conduct or ethics.
They only think about
some deity bestowing blessings upon them, so
they don't focus on cultivating morality. If they don't
cultivate morality, they
will already suffer in their present lives,
right? They also create a lot of
suffering for their own families
if they live immorally, right?
How can they be happy then?
So, through this lesson, we will have a
stronger faith and a clearer understanding of
Buddhism, and specifically regarding worship and
prayer, it will be
more in accordance with the Dharma and will
help us to have
more perseverance, right? So, I, the
Venerable Master, invite all of you to
listen to
this lecture because the Master's teachings are
very broad, and I, along with the Venerable Master, will share my thoughts with you.
We fellow practitioners only
share the aspect of worship,
worship and prayer, how to make it effective,
how to worship, how to make
our prayers effective, that's all. It's
about achieving our wishes so that we can have peace. With a
calm mind, I wish all fellow
practitioners always be diligent, and that your entire
family is peaceful and
happy under the protection of the Three Jewels. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Now, let's move on to the
next part, which is answering a
question from Hoang Dat from the
website phamthiyen.com: "
Teacher, yesterday my mind was very peaceful because I
listened to many Dharma teachings and your lectures,
but the next day, I don't understand
why it wasn't as peaceful as
before. Although I still enjoyed listening to the Dharma, it's
true that the mind is impermanent. So how can I make
my mind always peaceful like it was at the
beginning?" "I also like
that, everyone likes a peaceful mind." "
You only asked about one aspect, which is the
peace of mind when listening to the Dharma." That is, when listening to the
Dharma, our minds feel
comfortable, relaxed, and have that feeling.
The feeling of peace and tranquility is
something very difficult to describe in words, is
n't it? The feeling is very different.
So, listening to the Dharma helps
us understand
something. So, to have a peaceful
mind when listening to the
Dharma, we
must remember the core principle right from the beginning.
Because some of the Buddha's teachings have
similar content. Everything is
just about greed, hatred, and delusion, and letting go of greed, hatred, and delusion,
right? Everything is just about
increasing morality, concentration, and wisdom, that's all.
But each Dharma teaching
has differences. They might be
40 minutes long, or 80
minutes long, but the circumstances are
different. Different examples make
them different, right? For
instance, a verse from the Buddha's Dhammapada says, "
Mind leads all things,"
right? Then
another part says, "All phenomena are created by the mind," and
another part says, "
Suffering and happiness are caused by the mind." When teaching, there
must be some
similarities, right? But it's different.  There are
different parts. It has similar parts
and different parts.
When we understand that,
we will be enthusiastic when listening to the Dharma.
But if we don't understand that, some
people gradually lose interest in listening to the Dharma. They
don't find peace when listening to the Dharma
because they have a mindset of not wanting to
learn, not wanting to attain enlightenment. That is, the mind of
seeking enlightenment, the mind of enlightenment, the desire for enlightenment,
diminishes. Some people listen to many teachings and
find them similar;
their minds start thinking, "Oh, it's just the same
as that. The content is the same, is
n't it, dear Dharma friends?" Many people have
this mindset when listening to the Dharma; they
hear everything about abandoning greed, anger, and delusion; everything about
practicing the
five precepts; everything about practicing the eight precepts; everything about
becoming a monk; everything about
patience; everything about doing good deeds,
right? Everything about respect; everything about
gratitude; everything about... In short, that's it. It's virtue, is
n't it? The wisdom and enlightenment are achieved
when we have this kind of thinking...  In that case,
our mind's focus on listening to the Dharma
will immediately decline, and we
won't be here anymore. We'll have to return to the act of
listening to the
Dharma, which is the same
Dharma teaching, the same content, the same
knowledge we haven't
learned yet, but our understanding will be different. Why is there a difference in understanding?
Understanding comes from our current merit
when we sit and listen to the
Dharma. Do you understand this clearly? For example, the same
Dharma teaching, the same sutra,
this year we recite it differently. We
understand it only about 10 parts
of the meaning of the sutra, and only
grasp one part. But if
we continue practicing like this,
next month we read the same sutra, and it's
different. Our understanding is different,
our diligence is different, right?
The year after that, we read it again and
we feel amazed, as if we've
just
heard it for the first time. There are Dharma teachings we've heard before, and then after a
long time, when we listen
again, we feel like something has suddenly dawned on us, or like we've
suddenly understood.  It's
like osmosis, isn't it? It's
different, so due to merit, there
will be different levels of enlightenment and
different levels of diligence. Before,
maybe a year ago, we heard
this song and we were very normal.
But at another time, our merit is different,
our mood is different, and when we
listen to it, we see it as a
salvation for us in the present, very
beneficial, right? So,
different merit and different mindsets lead to
different levels of enlightenment. It's like when
we listen to a song about
being happy, very happy, like two people
in love, these words are so heartfelt. But when we
listen to a sad love song,
about heartbreak or whatever,
we don't feel anything, right? But
if we're truly heartbroken, listening to that song
evokes a lot of emotion, right?
A lot of emotion. Sometimes we might
hug that song all day long without knowing what to
do. But when we're deeply in love,
that song doesn't evoke any emotion because
we're happy, right? So,
each Dharma lesson has its own meaning.
The content may be similar, but
our understanding differs because
our state of mind changes, and
importantly, our consciousness.
If we listen to the Dharma
with the mindset of thinking, "
I already know this content," many fellow practitioners
fall into that state, right? Many
listen to the Dharma with
that mindset, thinking, "Oh, I already know this content, it's all the
same," just listening to hear it,
sometimes just to hear it, sometimes to dedicate the merit to it, to gain
blessings. Then naturally, our state of mind is
not joyful, not
peaceful, not enjoyable because we don't truly understand the
Dharma. We don't truly understand it because the Dharma is
n't being absorbed, it's not being
true to our state of mind.
Therefore, if we
want to have a peaceful and
happy state of mind when listening to the Dharma, we
must first realize that
merit is different,
our merit changes, so the true understanding of the
Dharma is different.  Our merits change,
our virtues increase, so
our understanding of the Dharma will increase. That's the
first point we need. Secondly, it's
not about listening, but about
fully understanding the meaning of the Dharma. It's
impossible to fully understand it.
Thirdly, we need to clearly understand the
Dharma. We need to understand these three things clearly:
firstly, because our merits
today are different, today when we listen to the
Dharma, we will absorb it more deeply, even if the
content is old. Secondly,
even though this content is old, we ca
n't grasp it completely yet. We can't
fully understand it, right? The
first point is that
we want to
hear the Dharma. Secondly, we know
we don't fully understand it yet, so
we also want to understand it
clearly. Then, moving on to the third point,
we need to attain enlightenment. There are still
many things we need to be enlightened about. So, if
we have these three points,
we will never get tired of listening to the Dharma, and
when we listen to the Dharma, we will experience
joy.  It's a blessing,
for example, the mind of Han Quan, along with other
esteemed fellow practitioners, listened to the Dharma teachings on the
first Dharma lecture of the year, right? During the first Dharma lecture of the
year, the Master talked about the content
of our meritorious deeds.
We've heard that content many times, haven't we? We've heard it
many times, haven't we?
But during the lecture, the Master talked
about the mind of cause and effect. That lecture
was
slightly different, just adding an example, right?
At that time, when we listened, we absorbed that specific point,
something we had already grasped
from other lectures. Then, when we
grasped that particular point, it naturally
motivated us to be more aware of the
mind sowing the cause, and to pay
more attention to the mind of the resulting merit. Our
mind is joyful like this because
we previously sowed
this cause, and we paid more attention to
our happy mind, and we paid more attention to
our suffering mind. So, with each
Dharma lecture, we can absorb
a certain idea, and that idea will
help us to be more diligent.  Isn't that right?
We can't possibly absorb an entire
Dharma lecture. A lecture might
have ten points, and we might only grasp one. Sometimes,
even if we listen attentively to an entire
lecture, we might only understand
one sentence, one
idea, not the whole thing, because
we're not exceptionally brilliant or wise. That's what
makes us joyful and content.
Even Han Guan listened to the first Dharma lecture,
but only grasped one idea, and that made him
joyful for days afterward.
Thanks to that, he became more diligent, right,
dear fellow practitioners?
Therefore,
you should understand this clearly: listening to the
Dharma has such value. So,
we must first set the right mindset.
Before listening to the Dharma, we need
those three elements. Then we
won't disregard the Dharma. But if
we only think, "This Dharma lecture was the same
before, it had the same content,"
or even if it's a lecture the master
gave again, for example, the Eight Great Reasons Sutra...  The
Master has already taught us,
and now he's teaching the
younger generation again. Because the
video quality from the last time wasn't good,
according to requests, the Master will teach it
again for the younger generation. Firstly, the younger generation
needs to hear it directly; they don't
like listening via video, they prefer to hear the
Master teach directly. So when
the Master teaches the younger generation, he
uses many examples.
So, when we listen, of
course, we will understand more clearly,
right, fellow practitioners? It's the same Master teaching,
but when we listen again, we will
understand much more. However, if
someone's mindset is like, "Oh, the
Master has already taught this," or "
I've heard that before, I won't listen anymore,"
then they won't be able to absorb the Dharma,
right? They won't be able to absorb the
Dharma. And
when our minds have that state of mind,
then later we
won't want to listen to the Dharma anymore. When
our liking for listening to the Dharma decreases,
our minds will not be at peace.  So,
here, the Lord Han Guan's answer to
you is that if you want to have a
constantly peaceful mind while listening to the Dharma, you must
orient your mind correctly to listen to the Dharma. Only by orienting your mind
correctly will you find peace and
not feel bored, and when listening to the Dharma,
you will focus your mind on the Dharma. If
you cannot cultivate such a mind,
you will sometimes listen to the Dharma with a contemptuous attitude, looking down on the
Dharma, looking down on the
Dharma teacher, and looking down on the Dharma teacher. Because if you listen but still look down on the
teacher and the Dharma,
you will not penetrate the Dharma, and
your mind will not find peace. As for
us, of course, our minds
are impermanent because we still have
love and hate, so
sometimes we like listening to the Dharma, sometimes we don't,
sometimes we find peace while listening to the
Dharma, sometimes we don't. But we
must maintain the mind that seeks enlightenment,
maintain the intellect that seeks enlightenment. If
this Dharma doesn't bring peace,
another Dharma will. We must clearly understand this so that
we can be diligent and
practice until a certain point where our mind is
constantly at peace. Then we will be able to attain this peace.  It will be achieved,
but to achieve that, we
must diligently listen to the Dharma at the beginning.
Then, the Mind-Controlling Han Qu also wishes you
that while listening to the Dharma, your mind will experience
more peace and joy. Dear fellow
practitioners, in life,
we cannot avoid
sadness and anger when we encounter
criticism, and we cannot
avoid feelings of joy when
we receive praise.
The question you sent to Mind-Controlling Han Qu today is:
How can you be at ease in the face of
praise and criticism? Mind-Controlling Han Qu, please read the
question: "Teacher, how can I be at ease
in the face of praise or criticism from
others?
I find that when I receive praise, I
easily become arrogant, and when I encounter criticism, I
become angry or insecure, then fearful,
sad, and afraid to strive anymore. I
hope you can give me some advice.
Thank you, teacher." Dear fellow
practitioners, it
is true that praise and criticism lead us
to two different extremes, making
us feel unbalanced, unable to
stand in the middle.  Standing in the middle is called being at ease, being free and unburdened. It means being stable,
noble, comfortable, and
easy to face, right? It means not being
confused or acting ridiculously.
Or, it means that
your appearance, from the inside
out, remains dignified,
full of freedom, and your behavior is not hindered by
external circumstances, right? For
example, if you're criticized a little, of
course you get angry. When you're angry,
your behavior changes,
right? Then, if you're praised a little, you
get emotionally affected, and
your behavior changes, right?
Sometimes,
you're not even yourself anymore.
Normally, I'm very normal, just like
this, no one has praised me, no
one has criticized me, I'm living true to myself, right?
But if I get criticized, I feel
different, or if I get praised, it's different.  It's
usually different from normal; you see
things differently—a moment without
praise, a moment without criticism,
right? That's a state of mind that
changes very quickly when affected by external factors.
Here, it's affected by praise and criticism. Praise and
criticism are like the
winds that cause people to lose their
normalcy and self-control. Two of the eight winds—
praise
and criticism—and criticism, indeed, also gives
rise to fear, sadness, and a lack of motivation. That's
true. But for those who don't
understand the
Dharma, criticism is actually
positive and very good to them, while praise is
just normal. That means if
you want to be arrogant, then those who
practice will
strive to reach this state of self-control, and they will
face it more easily,
right? Those who know how to practice, and today you
want to become like that, then let me
share some
experiences in practice, experiences in facing the
mind. The
question
you brought is naturally...  She's also the
right person for the right job, isn't she? Because,
as the head of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, she naturally receives
many compliments from esteemed friends.
How can she remain at ease
amidst praise and criticism? What will she use to
remain at ease? Why doesn't she
feel inferior, why doesn't she feel sad?
Why doesn't she feel inferior, why does
n't she feel angry, why doesn't she feel
afraid? Why doesn't she feel a lack of
ambition? So,
what do we need? What method do we need? Then
we must practice it little by little. We must practice,
listen, and contemplate. We must listen to the Dharma, we must contemplate, and we must practice each small thing, each tiny thing, from the small compliment, from the small thing, we must analyze it. First, regarding the text, that is, regarding listening, we know
that we are only influenced by our
own karma.
We must understand that
we are influenced by karma because of
our thoughts, words, and actions.
No one
knows,
right? No one knows, so
their praise isn't accurate. Maybe
I'm not as good as they say, or
maybe I've exceeded their expectations.
Only I know my own thoughts,
right? Just like that, we've
seen that external praise doesn't have
much value, haven't we? Because we
know ourselves. For example, someone might praise Ms.
Yen, saying, "Oh, you're so kind," but we know whether we're
kind or not, right?
Or maybe they might say, "Oh, you're so mean!" We know whether we're mean
or not, right? We don't
depend on external opinions;
we can
judge ourselves, right? Because we are the
masters of our thoughts, our
words, and our
actions. We don't need others to
judge us, do we? Their
opinions are never accurate; only our own
judgments are accurate.
So, if
someone praises us, we should be moved. If we
praise ourselves, we should be
moved. If we criticize ourselves, we
should be moved. And if outsiders criticize something that's
right, we should correct it, right? If
something isn't right...  They don't know they're
dying, that's not right. Thinking about karma
like that, is it easy? That's the
only way for us to be at peace; there's
no second way.
We know ourselves well; no one else
knows us except for saints and Buddhas, right?
So in this world, many
people use their actions to
deceive, but their actions appear
very good, many people praise them,
right? Their reputation rises, and then they
deceive, right? Therefore,
even if someone praises us,
or many people praise us, we still see that
all of that isn't accurate
for us. Only we
know ourselves, right? So how can we
not be at peace? If people criticize
us, we should see what they're criticizing us for,
strive to eliminate
that point, and transform ourselves,
right? If we transform ourselves,
how can we be criticized forever? Just
criticize once, criticize this time, and the
next time we meet, it will be different, right?
Because people are people who see things differently.  The
current situation is about praise and criticism, and it's based on
other people's perspectives, right?
So, if my current situation is good, and it's just that other
people's perspective isn't
right, why should I be bothered? I don't need to
change, right?
But if other people's perspective is right and
I'm truly bad, then I have to
transform, right?
And we need to have an
accurate mindset to face
praise because when we receive praise,
arrogance often arises if we
don't understand the first point that
Han Quan just shared: we
must know our current karma.
If we don't know our current karma, if we don't recognize our
current karma,
then of course we will be swept away by
this praise very
quickly, right? One compliment and
we immediately feel arrogance, our mind becomes arrogant, right?
So, if we
don't recognize our current
karma regularly, we will be
like that, we will become arrogant.  If we
are so arrogant, how should we
deal with it? How
should we continuously combat
this arrogant mind? Actually, it's
not a difficult mindset at all; it's very simple.
First,
our current situation doesn't satisfy us;
our current abilities don't satisfy
us,
we don't want to stop
there. That's the first point of dealing with arrogance.
Second, regarding dealing with arrogance,
we see many talented people, right?
Many talented people, but we are still far behind.
If we're talking about being talented in spiritual practice, there
are saints and
Buddhas; if we're talented in worldly matters, there are countless
talented people in various fields, right?
If we're talking about being talented, it has to be the
best in all fields, not just one
field.
That means we must
clearly understand what is the
best. If we haven't reached that
level of excellence, then there's nothing worth being
arrogant about. We need to keep going, and that path is still
very challenging, so praise is
n't what we need, right?  That's
not what we need,
so we think about the best. That means the
best or number one. In
spiritual practice, there are saints and Buddhas,
so when it comes to being skilled, there are
many skilled people. We're mistaken,
we've targeted the wrong people, that's why
we become arrogant. We only
think of ourselves as being the best
among five or ten people
in a group,
right? We see ourselves as the best among
five or ten people, we see ourselves as incredibly
skilled. But we're mistaken,
we've set our standards
too low, haven't we? Right?
We see ourselves as the best in a whole group,
but that's not it. There are many more out there, many
higher ups.
That's why we keep our
perspective too low, our perspective limited
to five people, our perspective
within a group. That's why we're
controlled by this arrogance. So
we must set our aspirations
higher, right? In spiritual practice, we
must aim for saints and
Buddhas, but in work...  We must
strive for perfection in
everything we do. Naturally, our minds will
always see our
shortcomings, always see that we are
learning, and we cannot become
arrogant, right? If we
understand this, then naturally
we will see that even if people praise us,
that praise is something we
need to let go of. We need to move
forward,
like steps on a ladder. When we reach
this step, we naturally cannot
stay there forever; we must have
another step, and another step after that.
People praise us at
this level. But if their eyes
look up to a higher step, they won't
see us, so they won't praise us
anymore. And we don't stop
there; we will be at peace.
We must find this ultimate goal to
direct our minds towards, to
strive for, and we will not become
arrogant. Because we are not arrogant, we will
not be affected.  Being influenced by public praise, is
that clear? Not being
affected by praise? So we have
two points now. The first point is that praise and
criticism
are because people don't fully understand us,
so they praise us, or the praise isn't enough, or
we don't deserve the praise, right? They
praise us based on their understanding, not because
they understand us. The same goes for criticism;
they see things from their perspective. If they criticize us,
we should
learn from what they expect of us.
Or if they criticize us,
we should improve; if we haven't reached that level, we
should improve. And if their criticism is inaccurate, that's just their way of evaluating us; it doesn't affect us, right? So, we should just focus our time on improving ourselves, right? That's how we
overcome arrogance because we have
these two points, right? Next, we'll move on to
self-doubt and fear.
Remember, we still have to strive,
so there's nothing to be self-conscious about.
Anyone who is criticized, of course, is born with different karma
from their mother's womb, right?  Coming out of
this life, each person has a
different karma, a different ability,
a different talent, a
different effort. So, if we are
criticized, we must strive to improve.
Improvement changes
with each passing day, right? For example, if
someone has the ability from a
previous life, or has good karma from a
previous life, they learn something and immediately master it,
right? So, if in a previous life we ​​were always criticizing
people for arranging flowers badly, then in
this life we ​​don't know how to arrange flowers.
Now that we know,
we should praise them. We should praise those who are
beautiful, and if we like it,
we should learn. Because we like it, and if we learn, we
will quickly become proficient, right? There's
nothing self-centered about it. If someone criticizes
you for arranging flowers so badly, and you say, "
No, no, I won't arrange them, they're terrible." If
you feel
bad about yourself, you should say, "Yes, I
admit, your arrangement looks
funny." Then next time you should go and pick up the
broken or old things,
right?  First, I take
these old, broken things and learn how to arrange them,
right? Then
maybe I buy broken pieces of paper,
or maybe these flowers are made from broken pieces of
paper. I arrange them and learn the shapes first, right?
If I can't arrange them properly, what can I arrange? If I can
arrange flowers, then I'll learn.
Why should I be self-conscious? I have to improve. In
5 days, 10 days, or even a month, I
'll be able to change, right? That's
why criticism is very
good. I can use that criticism to
strive for improvement. If people
didn't criticize, I'd think I was the
most beautiful person in the world, right? Then
I'd just stay there forever. Because my abilities are
only limited to that point, I wouldn't think
of anything else, and sometimes people just keep
doing what they've always done. I see
people praising me and thinking, "
It's beautiful, everyone's praising it!" Then
I wouldn't have the mindset to innovate
anymore. But thanks to people's criticism, I
go home and think, "If people criticize it like
this, how can I make it more beautiful?"
So, remember, to be at ease
in the face of praise and criticism,
we must understand that no one truly
understands us, our own karma is what's
important, right? No one knows
us, no one knows
what we're thinking, only we are the only ones who
truly understand ourselves, and we always
strive to change. Do you understand?
Before receiving praise, we know that people
don't truly understand us; only we truly
understand ourselves. Either they
idolize us too much, and we don't
deserve it, or their praise is
less than what
we have, so there's nothing to be happy
about, right? Furthermore, regarding criticism, if it's true,
we should change; if it's not true, then
it's just their opinion, their perspective, not the
truth, right? That's how
we see ourselves being at ease in the face of praise and criticism.
Not being
at ease is because we know we're not the
best, not arrogant, not self-important, not the
greatest. So we will strive to find...  The
goals we aim for are so
high that we won't be arrogant,
we won't be self-centered, and we will
strive, right? So, you have
received the sharing of the Mind-
Contemplation in the part about being at ease
before praise and criticism. We all
have four elements: Only we understand
ourselves is
one, then we find the most important objects, right? The
most important object is two, right? The
third is striving to transform ourselves, right? The fourth
is observing ourselves in the
present moment. Before practicing, little by little,
small things,
we start by being at ease before praise. For example, if someone
praises us a little, we must
practice immediately; if they criticize us a little, we must practice immediately. Only then can
we face the
big picture, right? So,
you should practice those four things, and gradually you
will become at ease. Respectfully, my friends,
from
when we were still studying
until now...  The mind of the Han-style meditation
has a
prominent characteristic. I've noticed
that whenever something criticizes
me, whenever something happens—what
people call the ups and downs of
life—the mind of the Han-style meditation develops and becomes
very strong. This is because the mind of the Han-style meditation
has the quality of absorbing and
correcting what needs to be corrected.
That is, criticism is like
food for me, so after each
criticism or something like that,
the mind of the Han-style meditation learns from experience very
quickly, and then I develop
a breakthrough. Looking back at my current age,
it's always been like this: when there's a
setback, I never fall into a
state of self-doubt or sadness. I
never experience that; instead, I only change
in a very positive direction. The mind of the Han-
style meditation sees that if
I don't receive these challenges, sometimes I'll be
sad, sometimes I'll be happy.  It seems
normal, but when there are
storms, that's when we become more diligent. Whenever there are
criticisms, we become more
diligent, whether the criticism is true or
false. It becomes an
environment for us to become more diligent.
So, here, I'm
sharing this with you, especially the young people. Sending this question like
this is to encourage you, especially the
younger generation, to live very positively,
right? And we will be defeated by
praise, we will stagnate
before praise. Praise is very
dangerous; we will become complacent
with what we have,
right? Praise is dangerous; being
complacent with what we have is
dangerous. Firstly, if what we
have is good, right? But there are
things we have that are not
our goal, not what we
need. But because we
see people praising this, we
become distracted and live with the wrong purpose. For example,
the mind of a practitioner. I'm just giving a specific example.
In spiritual practice, our goal is...  The ultimate goal is
liberation for
oneself, but because I have the karmic affinity, I
choose the Dharma, I have the karmic affinity, so I
chant the scriptures, right? Because I have the karmic affinity,
I help other families
overcome their suffering by
practicing Buddhism. So,
because of these three karmic affinitys, people praise my Dharma, and they praise my
ability to chant the
scriptures. Then, because I
know how to guide people correctly so
they can practice and transform their karma,
they also praise me. Because of
these three praises, I will like to choose the
Dharma, I will like to chant the scriptures, and
I will only like to guide people in their
practice, forgetting the fundamental goal:
my own liberation. Forgetting that means
when I choose the Dharma, I only choose it
for others, not for myself. I
only choose it for others to praise me,
but I don't practice what the
scriptures teach. That's
called forgetting the purpose, isn't it?
That praise makes me forget my goal, which is
liberation. That means when I choose the Dharma,
I must practice, I must learn, I
must practice, I must practice before
others. I forget that.  That's because
I'm captivated by praise, and then I
gather to chant, simply to help
others chant, to help
those who are fortunate enough to
hear the chanting and
enter the ocean of Buddhist teachings. But then I forget that
it only yields results up to that point.
I forget that I stray further
into that path because I like being
praised, right, great friends? I like
that praise, so I'm
limited, I stay in that position. Then
I guide people in their
practice to transform their karma,
so I get caught up in the
praise and thanks of those who admire me.
I don't tell others to
do it anymore, I only like to praise myself, I
don't tell many people to
do it together. Then I forget the
purpose, which is that I also have to practice to
transform my current karma. I'm engrossed
in teaching others but
I don't practice myself, right? I forget the
purpose. That's why praise is extremely
dangerous. Therefore, I must
know myself, what I need.
Who is the object of our striving? Is it the
object of our desire to be equal to them?
For example, we lay
practitioners should consider
who is the
object of our striving, ...
Buddhist wisdom, studying Buddhism, studying Buddhism to attain
liberation, that's why we have Buddhist wisdom. I
wish all fellow practitioners and
friends to be diligent. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Let
us all dedicate this
merit. May
this merit be directed to all disciples
and sentient beings so that they may all
attain Buddhahood.
[Music]